Related Works!!

1. Voice AI-Intelligence Based Voice Assistant
Barakkath Shabana S S; Abarajitha S D; Mohammed Taufeeq K
Abstract:
Voice assistant applications have become integral parts of modern technology ecosystems, offering users convenient and efficient ways to interact with their devices. This paper introduces Voice Ai, a versatile voice assistant application developed using Android Studio and Google's Machine Learning Kit Machine learning(MLKit) for Optical Character Recognition (OCR) functionalities. The app includes features like setting alarms, making calls, opening applications, and conducting question-answer sessions powered by G4F. A comparative analysis between G4F and Google's backend is performed, assessing their performance and user satisfaction during question-answer interactions. Voice Ai simplifies daily tasks and boosts productivity, providing insights for developers, researchers, and end-users interested in AI-based voice assistant applications.
Citation: P. Garai, A. Nikam, S. Kerkar, S. Deshmukh, A. Mane and S. Bhise, "Voice AI-Intelligence Based Voice Assistant," 2025 International Conference on Intelligent and Innovative Technologies in Computing, Electrical and Electronics (IITCEE), Bangalore, India, 2025, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/IITCEE64140.2025.10915236. keywords: {Measurement;Productivity;Accuracy;Optical character recognition;Personal voice assistants;Machine learning;Internet;Time factors;Smart phones;Bars;AI-based Voice Assistant;Android Studio;Optical Character Recognition;G4F;Machine Learning Kit},


2. An AI Powered Voice Assistant for Enhanced User Interaction
Barakkath Shabana S S; Abarajitha S D; Mohammed Taufeeq K
Abstract:
This paper examines the rapidly evolving role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) voice assistants within modern communication. These programs have seamlessly integrated into daily life, transforming how users interact with technology. This analysis delves into the core functionality of AI voice assistants, exploring their benefits, potential risks, and the ethical considerations that arise from their increasing prevalence. Ultimately, this paper aims to provide a framework for understanding the multifaceted impact of AI voice assistants in shaping the future of human-computer interaction.
Citation: B. S. S S, A. S D and M. T. K, "An AI Powered Voice Assistant for Enhanced User Interaction," 2025 11th International Conference on Communication and Signal Processing (ICCSP), Melmaruvathur, India, 2025, pp. 880-884, doi: 10.1109/ICCSP64183.2025.11089189. keywords: {Human computer interaction;Productivity;Translation;Portable computers;Personal voice assistants;Signal processing;Natural language processing;Artificial intelligence;Speech to text;Python;AI Voice Assistants;Artificial Intelligence;Voice Interaction;Human-Computer Interaction;Communication technology},

3. CelestAI: Virtual Reality AI Assistant for Everyday Tasks
Renuka Sagar; N J Saniya; Meghana Narayan; Mala M; M Supriya
Abstract:
CelestAI merges the functionalities of a virtual reality and an AI-powered assistant to improve productivity on various tasks, including management and communication. CelestAI addresses the issue of traditional virtual assistants' limited immersive interaction, and in the context of VR applications, they lack an engaging AI assistant. By combining AI-powered Assistants into a VR environment, users are more engaged. CelestAI, our assistant, and users are represented as avatars created using Ready Player Me, while the RPM SDK for Unity enhances the functionalities of these avatars. Additionally, we have integrated OpenAI's API, allowing users to converse with the assistant. Preliminary evaluations indicate that CelestAI facilitates text-based conversations with the assistant within an immersive VR environment. This advancement improves VR interactivity by incorporating artificial intelligence. Integration with voice interactions and multilingual capability are two additional use cases. It also has applications in education, healthcare, and entertainment, making CelestAI a versatile AI-powered virtual assistant.
Citation: R. Sagar, N. J. Saniya, M. Narayan, M. M and M. Supriya, "CelestAI: Virtual Reality AI Assistant for Everyday Tasks," 2025 International Conference on Sustainability, Innovation & Technology (ICSIT), Nagpur, India, 2025, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ICSIT65336.2025.11295027. keywords: {Productivity;Avatars;Virtual assistants;Education;Entertainment industry;Medical services;Oral communication;Speech recognition;Multilingual;Artificial intelligence;CelestAI;Virtual Reality;AI-powered Assistant;OpenAI API;Unity;Ready Player Me;RPM SDK;Interactive Avatar;AI-driven Support;Conversational AI;Task Management;Virtual Assistant;VR Interactivity;Voice-Based Interaction;Multilingual capability;Education;Healthcare;Entertainment},


4. Design and Development of Smart AI-Powered Desktop Assistant for Productivity Enhancement
Rahul S; Santhosh P; Rajvignesh B S; R S Ponmagal
Abstract:
This paper presents the development of a multifunctional desktop assistant designed to enhance productivity through task automation, text extraction, and developer-centric utilities. The assistant includes features such as text extraction using optical character recognition (OCR), achieving a QR scanner processing time of 1.2 seconds under normal conditions for retrieving text from images. It integrates task reminders with Google and Microsoft calendars, maintaining a Google Calendar sync time of approximately 1.5 seconds. Sticky notes and a todo list offer lightweight data storage, using as little as 30 KB under typical usage. A unique clipboard manager securely tracks and stores up to 20 copied items persistently, utilizing 15 KB of storage during normal operations, with encrypted storage for enhanced security. Additionally, the assistant features a specialized Developer Mode, activating in just 1.0 second, offering tools like a package installer for seamless library installations, a function finder for retrieving information on built-in functions, a system variable path editor for efficient environment variable management, and a multiple monitor setup for optimizing multiscreen workflows. The screen time manager further improves digital well-being by tracking screen usage, scheduling breaks, and activating night mode when necessary. This research discusses the system's modular architecture, implementation, and performance — demonstrating its effectiveness in streamlining user workflows while maintaining low resource consumption, such as 150 MB memory usage and a CPU load of 8.7% under normal working conditions.
Citation: R. S, S. P, R. B. S and R. S. Ponmagal, "Design and Development of Smart AI-Powered Desktop Assistant for Productivity Enhancement," 2025 International Conference in Advances in Power, Signal, and Information Technology (APSIT), Bhubaneswar, India, 2025, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/APSIT63993.2025.11086150. keywords: {Productivity;Optical character recognition;Memory management;Feature extraction;Libraries;Internet;Synchronization;Information technology;Secure storage;Monitoring;Desktop Assistant;Productivity Tools;Clipboard Tracker;Text Extraction;QR Scanner;To-Do List;Developer Mode;Function Finder;Package Installer},

5. Voice-Activated Personalized Assistant with Raspberry Pi and Google API Integration
Pranav Gokhale; Sriharsha Vadada; Viraj Kisan Daule; Meena Belwal
Abstract:
As we enter a new age of a world of fast-paced living and a technology-driven lives, the need for personal assistants with can simplify everyday tasks and productivity is needed as a help for the humankind. There is a demanding need for a device which does not need to be operated by hands or with high-level coding but a simple English command which will do the task requested for. The proposed personal assistant aims to fulfill this requirement by providing a voice-interactive personal assistant powered by Raspberry Pi and generative AI that will listen to voice commands and respond intelligently by generated voice commands. The assistant will process voice inputs and offer auditory responses in real time using advanced AI models. With speech recognition, natural language processing, and audio synthesis in real time, this system provides a very seamless user experience. It has demonstrated a cost-effective and practical approach to building an intuitive virtual companion that can assist with simple daily tasks. This method proposes efficiency in the process with a cost-effective approach and a security concern.
Citation: P. Gokhale, S. Vadada, V. K. Daule and M. Belwal, "Voice-Activated Personalized Assistant with Raspberry Pi and Google API Integration," 2025 Third International Conference on Augmented Intelligence and Sustainable Systems (ICAISS), Trichy, India, 2025, pp. 1485-1489, doi: 10.1109/ICAISS61471.2025.11041858. keywords: {Productivity;Hands;Generative AI;Speech recognition;Real-time systems;User experience;Natural language processing;Text to speech;Internet;Security;Natural Language Processing(NLP);Voice Assistant(VA);Voice Recognition;Generative AI(GAI);Text-to-Speech Synthesis;Raspberry Pi(RP)},

6. Intelligent Voice Automation System with Dual Online/Offline Functionality
Udit Narayana Kar; Asish Kumar Dalai; Vudayama Chaitanya Kumar; Kandukuri Lalitha; Jaharunnisa Mohammad
Abstract:
Digital transformation has revolutionized the way humans interact with technology, and voice assistants are prominent examples of this evolution AI-based voice assistants such as Amazon Alexa, Apple Siri, and Google Assistant use advanced speech recognition and natural language processing (NLP) to interpret voice commands and perform tasks accordingly This study presents the design, development, and implementation of a voice assistant using Python. It converts speech into text (STT), processes the text to identify commands, and provides audio feedback (TTS). The assistant can perform various tasks such as opening websites, playing music, and checking time. This project demonstrated the potential of voice assistants to enhance daily productivity and accessibility.
Citataion: U. N. Kar, A. K. Dalai, V. C. Kumar, K. Lalitha and J. Mohammad, "Intelligent Voice Automation System with Dual Online/Offline Functionality," 2025 International Conference on Next Generation of Green Information and Emerging Technologies (GIET), Gunupur, India, 2025, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/GIET65294.2025.11234833. keywords: {Productivity;Automation;Digital transformation;Personal voice assistants;Natural language processing;Internet;Speech processing;Artificial intelligence;Next generation networking;Voice Assistant;Artificial Intelligence;Python;Speech Recognition;Natural Language Processing},

7. Intelligent Personal using NLP and ML for Assistant Workflow Automation
Thiraviya C; Priyanka K A; Ananthi S; Sumithra M; Oviya S; Jayanthi R
Abstract:
The presented paper proposes an AI-powered personal assistant, which would automate regular and administrative activities with the help of high-level Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML). To reduce the amount of human interference, both voice and texts are accepted as the data input sources, and schedules, reminders, emails, and task lists can be managed with the assistant. It can be smoothly paired with such tools as Google Calendar, Trello, Slack and Outlook, thus, making the workflow coordination quite smooth in both personal and professional settings. The assistant can be personalized (i.e., learn the preferences and habits of users) with the help of a dynamic personalization layer and provide context-sensitive and proactive recommendations with the proposed tasks. The system is secure, scalable, has an API-driven architecture and can be deployed on web, mobile, and voice. It guarantees privacy of the data using end-to-end encryption and safe authentication. The assistant offers realistic interfaces and interactions in real time with devices. Multilingual communication and integration with IoT is also done in the future in order to make the assistant a central point of connected living. However, as opposed to traditional assistants that are reactive in nature, this paper suggests such a new kind of modular AI assistant that is able to learn user behaviour proactively and automatically customize and cross-platform workflow in real-time based on adaptive techniques of NLP and ML.
Citation: T. C, P. K A, A. S, S. M, O. S and J. R, "Intelligent Personal using NLP and ML for Assistant Workflow Automation," 2025 3rd International Conference on Sustainable Computing and Data Communication Systems (ICSCDS), Erode, India, 2025, pp. 658-665, doi: 10.1109/ICSCDS65426.2025.11167822. keywords: {Productivity;Training;Schedules;Machine learning;Natural language processing;Real-time systems;User experience;Multilingual;Service-oriented architecture;Testing;AI Assistant;Task Automation;Natural Language Processing;Productivity Tools;Personalization;Machine Learning;Conversational AI;Workflow Management;Smart Scheduling;Human-AI Interaction},

8. Integration of Voice and Handwritten Tests Analysis for Enhanced Detection of Parkinson’s Disease using Machine Learning
Mohamed Ziyadh M; Bavisetti Siva Avinash; K.Sreekumar; Sibi Amaran
Abstract:
This research introduces a novel approach to improving Parkinson’s disease (PD) detection by combining voice and handwriting analysis. By leveraging machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) techniques, this hybrid model aims to enhance diagnostic accuracy. Traditional approaches have focused on either voice or handwriting analysis independently. However, this study demonstrates the potential of integrating both modalities to achieve superior results. Preliminary findings suggest that the combined analysis of voice and handwriting data using ML and DL techniques yields higher accuracy compared to single-modality approaches. This study outlines the methodology, challenges, and potential implications of this hybrid approach for early PD diagnosis. By combining voice and handwriting analysis, this research offers a promising avenue for improving the detection and management of Parkinson’s disease.
Citation: M. Z. M, B. Siva Avinash, K.Sreekumar and S. Amaran, "Integration of Voice and Handwritten Tests Analysis for Enhanced Detection of Parkinson’s Disease using Machine Learning," 2024 8th International Conference on I-SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud) (I-SMAC), Kirtipur, Nepal, 2024, pp. 1722-1725, doi: 10.1109/I-SMAC61858.2024.10714637. keywords: {Ethics;Accuracy;Sensitivity;Transforms;Jitter;Motors;Feature extraction;Real-time systems;Medical diagnostic imaging;Diseases;Deep Learning;Parkinson’s Detection;machine learning;Data Analysis},


My mini insights:
1. this is also type of voice assistant in a generalized ecosystem
2. focusses on daily life integration
3. similar one like the 2nd one
4. this is also focussed on desktop assistant, not for productivity or everyday use
5. seems like a very good personalized assistant this is a good future scope, where even we can export to devices like raspberry pi and make this project to run in different devices too, such a interesting concept
6. offline connectivity similar to us, where even some llms run offline
7. workflow automation is spoken here, which is a core part of our project
8. Nothing much, I just love how they integrated voice in this, some ideas to fetch for my project (just have one line about this in the last para of related works section)
